---
layout: post
title: "CR and CR-LF"
date: "2015-06-27 00:00"
permalink: cr-cr-lf
category: [Linux]
tags: [tips-tricks]
author: Bharath Bhushan Lohray
comments: true
---

Anyone who has worked extensively between Linux machines and Windows machines has at some time come across a lot of badly formatted documents. Inititally, I would spend a lot of time finding the end of the line and pressing <enter> to format the document properly. After months of doing this, I realized that this is due to the line endings or the end of line (`EOL`) ([see Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newline)). Windows sees the end of a line differently from the way \*nix sees it.

There are a quite a few end of line characters. Carriage Return (`CR`) and Line Feed(`LF`) being the more often used. To understand these, consider a typewriter. Typewriters have two actions to move to a new line -

* **Line Feed** - Feeds the paper up one line, but keeps the typing position (cursor) at the same spot.
* **Carriage Return** - Moves the typing position to the start of the line, without moving across lines.

When one strikes the line feed lever of a typewriter, the paper is first fed. Further forcing the lever causes it to move the paper carriage to the start of the line (carriage return). The `LF` and `CR` behave in the same way.

| System | End of Line Character | Symbolic Representation |
|:-------|----------------------:|------------------------:|
| Windows / DOS | `CR + LF` |   `\r\n` |
| \*Nix | `LF` | `\n` |
| Risc OS | `LF + CR` | `\n\r` |
| MacOS upto version 9 | `CR` | `\r` |

**The table above lists line endings for a few platforms.**

Knowing about the line breaks did not help me in formatting the files. I continued fixing my files the hard way for years, before stumbling across the utility - `dos2unix`. On Ubuntu, this can be installed easily using

```sudo apt-get install dos2unix```

and may be used as easily as -

```
dos2unix filename
```

This changes DOS / Windows line endings to *Nix format. The other commands are -

```
unix2dos filename
mac2unix filename
unix2mac filename
```

This is a utility than could have saved me hours of work. This utility also exists for cygwin.
